---
layout: post
name: Teaching In China
blog_title: Inside the Classroom
title_description: Inside the Classroom
image: /img/class.jpg
---

>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this article I will only cover the part from the moment I was getting into the classroom till the moment I was leaving it. The problems with the school management and what was happening outside the classroom is simply too complex and that nightmare will have to be described separately in some of my later posts. 

>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I worked both in kindergartens (ages 3 to 6) and private schools (ages 8 to 15). Sine it’s a luxury to have a foreign teacher, I worked in different schools every day. It had both good and bad sides, good thing was that I could get away with preparing one lesson that I would then use throughout the week, except for Tuesdays, where the school used a completely different book. So less preparation for the class. Bad sides are of course hundreds of students you only get to see once a week, changing schools every day which already is a pan in the ass, adapting to a different way of working every day. 

>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kindergartens were definitely the most exciting. I was scared at first, considering that I do not really like small children, but I was pleasantly surprised what a positive feedback I got from those children. The recipe was so easy: there is a catchy finger play song at the beginning of the lesson, 3 to 4 games (each game lasts only about 5 minutes, because of their attention span) and in the end there would be a simple chant that is somewhat connected to the lesson. After each class that lasts between 20-25 minutes they would learn a couple of new words, older classes even a simple sentence (e.g. The cat is on the table. The cat is under the table.). All this was holding their attention and they seemed genuinely motivated. Their Chinese teachers would make sure the discipline was good and in better schools I trained them to teach the children all the phrases we would use during the class (e.g. “Who can try?” They say: “I can try!” and raise their hands.). If Chinese teachers were cooperative everything would run smoothly, but there were classes where the teachers just saw English lessons as a break and would not engage or maintain the good discipline, the whole lesson was just a waste of time and we would not achieve anything. 

>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Surprisingly, it was much harder working with older students. Chinese schooling system is mostly based on pure repetition without understanding what is learned, they are overwhelmed with all the lessons their parents make them attend to since their early age, so by the time they ended up in my class they already had this avoidant or resentful attitude toward learning. They would not use their head to think and they will do anything to hide that they didn’t understand what I am talking about, and this really made my job hard. I tried to play the same games I played with my kindergarten students and funnily enough this worked. All the children deserve to play. 